README.md, before:

# target-airtable

`target-airtable` is a Singer target for Airtable.

Built with the [Meltano Target SDK](https://sdk.meltano.com).

## Disclaimer

This not meant to be a universal target for Airtable. It is a very specific implementation for a very
specific use case. It is not meant to be a general purpose target for Airtable.

## Installation

### Standalone

```bash
pipx install git+https://github.com/tomasvotava/target-airtable.git
```

### Meltano

Add the target to your Meltano project as a custom target:

```bash
meltano add loader target-airtable --from-ref https://raw.githubusercontent.com/tomasvotava/target-airtable/master/target-airtable.yml
```

## Configuration

### Accepted Config Options

| Property | Required | Description |
|:---|:---|:---|
| `token` | Yes | Airtable API token |
| `base_id` | Yes | Airtable base ID |
| `table_mapping` | Yes | Mapping of stream to Airtable table id |
| `table_primary_fields` | No | Mapping of stream to array of Airtable fields that should be used as primary key. If not given, `id` must be present in the records |
| `destructive` | No | If set to `true`, the target will delete all fields that are not present in the stream but are present in Airtable. Default is `false`. |
| `table_fields_mapping` | No | Mapping of stream to Airtable fields. If not given, all fields will be used. You may use special value `__NULL__` to omit a field completely. |

## Stream maps

Note that you can use stream maps in order to remap individual fields in the stream, e.g. for `tap-faker`:

```yaml
...
plugins:
  extractors:
    - name: tap-faker
      variant: airbyte
      pip_url: git+https://github.com/MeltanoLabs/tap-airbyte-wrapper.git
      config:
        airbyte_config:
          count: 100
        stream_maps:
          products:
            Make: make
            Model: model
            Year: int(year)
            Price: float(price)
            Created at: created_at
            Updated at: updated_at
            make: __NULL__
            model: __NULL__
            year: __NULL__
            price: __NULL__
            created_at: __NULL__
            updated_at: __NULL__
```

See [Inline Stream Maps](https://sdk.meltano.com/en/latest/stream_maps.html) in the Meltano SDK documentation for more information.

## Table fields mapping

If the tap you are using does not support stream maps, you can use `table_fields_mapping` to remap fields for individual tables:

```yaml
...
target:
  name: target-airtable
  config:
    ...
    table_fields_mapping:
      products:
        full_name: Full Name  # `full_name` will not be present in the Airtable, only `Full Name`
        i_dont_want_this_field: __NULL__
        # All fields not present here will be used as is
...
```

You may not use fancy shmancy transformations here, only simple remapping. Also note that contrary to stream maps,
fields are not added but rather replaced. That way you don't have to specify all fields, only those you want to change.
Additionally, you don't have to use `__NULL__` to omit a field you previously renamed.

Commit message:

feat!: allow insert / upsert config (#5)
BREAKING CHANGES
configuration was restructurized

README.md, after:

# target-airtable

`target-airtable` is a Singer target for Airtable.

Built with the [Meltano Target SDK](https://sdk.meltano.com).

## Disclaimer

This not meant to be a universal target for Airtable. It is a very specific implementation for a very
specific use case. It is not meant to be a general purpose target for Airtable.

## Installation

### Standalone

```bash
pipx install git+https://github.com/tomasvotava/target-airtable.git
```

### Meltano

Add the target to your Meltano project as a custom target:

```bash
meltano add loader target-airtable --from-ref https://raw.githubusercontent.com/tomasvotava/target-airtable/master/target-airtable.yml
```

## Configuration

### Accepted Config Options

|Property | Required |Description |
|:---|:---|:---|
|`token` | Yes | The token to authenticate against Airtable API |
|`base_id` | Yes | Airtable base ID |
|`streams` | No | Configuration for each of the input streams |
|`streams.<stream_name>.destructive` | No | If `true`, fields missing in the source stream that exist in the destination will be deleted from Airtable. Default is `false`. |
|`streams.<stream_name>.table_id` | No | The Airtable table id this stream should be poured into. By default, it is expected that the Airtable table name matches the stream name. |
|`streams.<stream_name>.upsert` | No | If `true`, data from the stream will be upserted into the Airtable table. Default is `false`. |
|`streams.<stream_name>.match_fields` | No | If upserting, list the fields that should act as a primary key for the Airtable table. Fields must exist on all records. |
|`streams.<stream_name>.fields_mapping` | No | A primitive fields mapping to be used with taps that do not support stream maps. Use `field: __NULL__` to exclude and `old_field: new_field` to rename field. |

## Stream maps

Note that you can use stream maps in order to remap individual fields in the stream, e.g. for `tap-faker`:

```yaml
...
plugins:
  extractors:
    - name: tap-faker
      variant: airbyte
      pip_url: git+https://github.com/MeltanoLabs/tap-airbyte-wrapper.git
      config:
        airbyte_config:
          count: 100
        stream_maps:
          products:
            Make: make
            Model: model
            Year: int(year)
            Price: float(price)
            Created at: created_at
            Updated at: updated_at
            make: __NULL__
            model: __NULL__
            year: __NULL__
            price: __NULL__
            created_at: __NULL__
            updated_at: __NULL__
```

See [Inline Stream Maps](https://sdk.meltano.com/en/latest/stream_maps.html) in the Meltano SDK documentation for more information.

## Table fields mapping

If the tap you are using does not support stream maps, you can use `table_fields_mapping` to remap fields for individual tables:

```yaml
...
target:
  name: target-airtable
  config:
    ...
    streams:
      products:
        fields_mapping:
          full_name: Full Name  # `full_name` will not be present in the Airtable, only `Full Name`
          i_dont_want_this_field: __NULL__
          # All fields not present here will be used as is
...
```

You may not use fancy shmancy transformations here, only simple remapping. Also note that contrary to stream maps,
fields are not added but rather replaced. That way you don't have to specify all fields, only those you want to change.
Additionally, you don't have to use `__NULL__` to omit a field you previously renamed.
